README.md, before:

# starlette-cramjam

<p align="center">
  <em>Cramjam integration for Starlette ASGI framework.</em>
</p>
<p align="center">
  <a href="https://github.com/developmentseed/starlette-cramjam/actions?query=workflow%3ACI" target="_blank">
      <img src="https://github.com/developmentseed/starlette-cramjam/workflows/CI/badge.svg" alt="Test">
  </a>
  <a href="https://codecov.io/gh/developmentseed/starlette-cramjam" target="_blank">
      <img src="https://codecov.io/gh/developmentseed/starlette-cramjam/branch/master/graph/badge.svg" alt="Coverage">
  </a>
  <a href="https://pypi.org/project/starlette-cramjam" target="_blank">
      <img src="https://img.shields.io/pypi/v/starlette-cramjam?color=%2334D058&label=pypi%20package" alt="Package version">
  </a>
  <a href="https://pypistats.org/packages/starlette-cramjam" target="_blank">
      <img src="https://img.shields.io/pypi/dm/starlette-cramjam.svg" alt="Downloads">
  </a>
  <a href="https://github.com/developmentseed/starlette-cramjam/blob/master/LICENSE" target="_blank">
      <img src="https://img.shields.io/github/license/developmentseed/starlette-cramjam.svg" alt="Downloads">
  </a>
</p>

---

**Source Code**: <a href="https://github.com/developmentseed/starlette-cramjam" target="_blank">https://github.com/developmentseed/starlette-cramjam</a>

---

The `starlette-cramjam` middleware aims to provide a unique Compression middleware to support **Brotli**, **GZip** and **Deflate** compression algorithms with a minimal requirement.

The middleware will compress responses for any request that includes "br", "gzip" or "deflate" in the Accept-Encoding header.

As for the official `Starlette` middleware, the one provided by `starlette-cramjam` will handle both standard and streaming responses.

`stralette-cramjam` is built on top of [pyrus-cramjam](https://github.com/milesgranger/pyrus-cramjam) an *Extremely thin Python bindings to de/compression algorithms in Rust*.

## Installation

You can install `starlette-cramjam` from pypi

```python
$ pip install -U pip
$ pip install starlette-cramjam
```

or install from source:

```bash
$ pip install -U pip
$ pip install https://github.com/developmentseed/starlette-cramjam.git
```

## Usage

The following arguments are supported:

- **minimum_size** (Integer) - Do not compress responses that are smaller than this minimum size in bytes. Defaults to `500`.
- **exclude_path** (Set of string) - Do not compress responses in response to specific `path` requests. Entries have to be valid regex expressions. Defaults to `{}`.
- **exclude_mediatype** (Set of string) - Do not compress responses of specific media type (e.g `image/png`). Defaults to `{}`.

#### Minimal (defaults) example

```python
import uvicorn

from starlette.applications import Starlette
from starlette.responses import PlainTextResponse

from starlette_cramjam.middleware import CompressionMiddleware

# create application
app = Starlette()

# register the CompressionMiddleware
app.add_middleware(CompressionMiddleware)


@app.route("/")
def index(request):
    return PlainTextResponse("Hello World")


if __name__ == "__main__":
    uvicorn.run(app, host="0.0.0.0", port=8000)
```

#### Using options

```python
import uvicorn

from starlette.applications import Starlette
from starlette.responses import PlainTextResponse, Response

from starlette_cramjam.middleware import CompressionMiddleware

# create application
app = Starlette()

# register the CompressionMiddleware
app.add_middleware(
    CompressionMiddleware,
    minimum_size=0,  # should compress everything
    exclude_path={"^/foo$"},  # do not compress response for the `/foo` request
    exclude_mediatype={"image/jpeg"},  # do not compress jpeg
)


@app.route("/")
def index(request):
    return PlainTextResponse("Hello World")

@app.route("/image")
def foo(request):
    return Response(b"This is a fake body", status_code=200, media_type="image/jpeg")

@app.route("/foo")
def foo(request):
    return PlainTextResponse("Do not compress me.")


if __name__ == "__main__":
    uvicorn.run(app, host="0.0.0.0", port=8000)
```

## Changes

See [CHANGES.md](https://github.com/developmentseed/starlette-cramjam/blob/master/CHANGES.md).

## Contribution & Development

See [CONTRIBUTING.md](https://github.com/developmentseed/starlette-cramjam/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md)

## License

See [LICENSE](https://github.com/developmentseed/starlette-cramjam/blob/master/LICENSE)

## Authors

Created by [Development Seed](<http://developmentseed.org>)

See [contributors](https://github.com/developmentseed/starlette-cramjam/graphs/contributors) for a listing of individual contributors.

Commit message:

enable customization of compression backend order

README.md, after:

# starlette-cramjam

<p align="center">
  <em>Cramjam integration for Starlette ASGI framework.</em>
</p>
<p align="center">
  <a href="https://github.com/developmentseed/starlette-cramjam/actions?query=workflow%3ACI" target="_blank">
      <img src="https://github.com/developmentseed/starlette-cramjam/workflows/CI/badge.svg" alt="Test">
  </a>
  <a href="https://codecov.io/gh/developmentseed/starlette-cramjam" target="_blank">
      <img src="https://codecov.io/gh/developmentseed/starlette-cramjam/branch/master/graph/badge.svg" alt="Coverage">
  </a>
  <a href="https://pypi.org/project/starlette-cramjam" target="_blank">
      <img src="https://img.shields.io/pypi/v/starlette-cramjam?color=%2334D058&label=pypi%20package" alt="Package version">
  </a>
  <a href="https://pypistats.org/packages/starlette-cramjam" target="_blank">
      <img src="https://img.shields.io/pypi/dm/starlette-cramjam.svg" alt="Downloads">
  </a>
  <a href="https://github.com/developmentseed/starlette-cramjam/blob/master/LICENSE" target="_blank">
      <img src="https://img.shields.io/github/license/developmentseed/starlette-cramjam.svg" alt="Downloads">
  </a>
</p>

---

**Source Code**: <a href="https://github.com/developmentseed/starlette-cramjam" target="_blank">https://github.com/developmentseed/starlette-cramjam</a>

---

The `starlette-cramjam` middleware aims to provide a unique Compression middleware to support **Brotli**, **GZip** and **Deflate** compression algorithms with a minimal requirement.

The middleware will compress responses for any request that includes "br", "gzip" or "deflate" in the Accept-Encoding header.

As for the official `Starlette` middleware, the one provided by `starlette-cramjam` will handle both standard and streaming responses.

`stralette-cramjam` is built on top of [pyrus-cramjam](https://github.com/milesgranger/pyrus-cramjam) an *Extremely thin Python bindings to de/compression algorithms in Rust*.

## Installation

You can install `starlette-cramjam` from pypi

```python
$ pip install -U pip
$ pip install starlette-cramjam
```

or install from source:

```bash
$ pip install -U pip
$ pip install https://github.com/developmentseed/starlette-cramjam.git
```

## Usage

The following arguments are supported:

- **compression** (List of Compression) - List of available compression algorithm. **This list also defines the order of preference**. Defaults to `[Compression.gzip, Compression.deflate, Compression.br]`,
- **minimum_size** (Integer) - Do not compress responses that are smaller than this minimum size in bytes. Defaults to `500`.
- **exclude_path** (Set of string) - Do not compress responses in response to specific `path` requests. Entries have to be valid regex expressions. Defaults to `{}`.
- **exclude_mediatype** (Set of string) - Do not compress responses of specific media type (e.g `image/png`). Defaults to `{}`.

#### Minimal (defaults) example

```python
import uvicorn

from starlette.applications import Starlette
from starlette.responses import PlainTextResponse

from starlette_cramjam.middleware import CompressionMiddleware

# create application
app = Starlette()

# register the CompressionMiddleware
app.add_middleware(CompressionMiddleware)


@app.route("/")
def index(request):
    return PlainTextResponse("Hello World")


if __name__ == "__main__":
    uvicorn.run(app, host="0.0.0.0", port=8000)
```

#### Using options

```python
import uvicorn

from starlette.applications import Starlette
from starlette.responses import PlainTextResponse, Response

from starlette_cramjam.compression import Compression
from starlette_cramjam.middleware import CompressionMiddleware

# create application
app = Starlette()

# register the CompressionMiddleware
app.add_middleware(
    CompressionMiddleware,
    compression=[Compression.gzip],  # Only support `gzip`
    minimum_size=0,  # should compress everything
    exclude_path={"^/foo$"},  # do not compress response for the `/foo` request
    exclude_mediatype={"image/jpeg"},  # do not compress jpeg
)


@app.route("/")
def index(request):
    return PlainTextResponse("Hello World")

@app.route("/image")
def foo(request):
    return Response(b"This is a fake body", status_code=200, media_type="image/jpeg")

@app.route("/foo")
def foo(request):
    return PlainTextResponse("Do not compress me.")


if __name__ == "__main__":
    uvicorn.run(app, host="0.0.0.0", port=8000)
```

## Changes

See [CHANGES.md](https://github.com/developmentseed/starlette-cramjam/blob/master/CHANGES.md).

## Contribution & Development

See [CONTRIBUTING.md](https://github.com/developmentseed/starlette-cramjam/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md)

## License

See [LICENSE](https://github.com/developmentseed/starlette-cramjam/blob/master/LICENSE)

## Authors

Created by [Development Seed](<http://developmentseed.org>)

See [contributors](https://github.com/developmentseed/starlette-cramjam/graphs/contributors) for a listing of individual contributors.
